Assignment 1 - Mikkel Svagård
Due 09.09.2016


Exercise 1 - Turing Test:
The Turing Test is designed to test an artificial intelligence. The program
passes if a human interrogator cannot tell wheter there was a computer or a
person that was tested.
The following capabilities is tested:
    - Natural Language processing, as in communication successfully in English
    - Knowledge Represenation, to store what it knows or hears
    - Automated reasoning, as in interpet the information given and draw new
      conclusions
    - Machine Learning, to adapt to new circumstances and to detect and
      extrapolate patterns (weird to try to define otherwise)
The full Turing Test includes video signals as the program is tested in
percecptual abilities as well. This causes the program to include computer
vision to percieve objects and robotics to manipulate said objects (and move
around)

Exercise 2 - Thinking vs Acting Rationally:
Thinking rationally can be defined as "correct" reasoning using a mathematical
model. Acting rationally can be described as doing the right thing based
maximal achievement, available information and computational abilities. As
acting rationally relies on available information and deducing actions
???

Exercise 3 - Theory of Reference:
Shows how to relate the objects in a logic to objects in the real world.
To be noted, Tarskis Theory of Truth states that the truth or falsity of a
statement is determined only by how it relates to the world and wheter it
accurately describes given world. 

Exercise 4 - Rationality:
According to Wikipedia, Rationality is the quality or state of being
resonable, based on the facts or reason. In other words, the state of seeking
best outcome through deduction of available information. From the book its
described as the actions given to achieve the ideale performance, based on
prior knowledge, the opportunities of actions, and the agents percept sequence
to date.

Exercise 5 - Robot crossing road:
A) As its based it's actions correctly based on the given information it can
be argued to have acted rationally. On the other hand, the lack of sensors and
informational sources the robot probably should have deduced that crossing the
road might not have bene a good idea. Either way, as the helicopter could have
landed whereever, and had nothing to do with the problem of crossing the road,
I will conclude with that the robot acted rational.
B) Other than the first two points made in the previous task the crossing car
IS a natural obstacle. As the robot should be able to sense the car, it could
be argued that it didn't act rational based on the infromation given.

Exercise 6: Vacuum Cleaner
A) As a simple reflex agent does not take in account of earlier actions (or past
perceptions). Therefor, it will be heavily penalized due to unnecessary
movements. As the environment only is two slots, after cleaning both if will
move inbetween them. Hence, its not a rational agent.
B)
I understood it that reflex agent with state is known as a model-based reflex
agent. According to an earlier edition of "A modern approach" these agents
keeps track of the current state of the enviorment. In addition, they store
information about how the world evolves on its own, as in how it would change
differently if the agent acted differently. 
Since this agent has tracked its own route, it knows where the clean squares
are. And as the room only has 2 squares, it shouldnt do anything for a while
after cleaning them both. Hence, with a "no action"-action it can be rational.
C)
As this simplex reflex agent only can make decisions based on 2 options, the
two squares in question, it should be able the be rational if it got a
"no-action"-action. Still, it has to continually check in the same manner as
the one mentioned in B the squares if the have become dirty.
An attempt of a pseudo-code:
[A,Dirty ; B,Clean] : Suck
[A,Dirty ; B,Dirty] : Suck
[A,Clean ; B,Dirty] : Left
[A,Clean ; B,Clean] : Wait 10 seconds
And the same when current tile is B, just movement to the right.


Exercise 7. 
Definitions:
Deterministic: Next state of enviornment determined by current state and
executed actions. Otherwise Stochastic
Episodic: Every action unaware/earlier or coming actions.Otherwise Sequantial
Dynamic: Environment changes - otherwise static
Discrete: Finite states - otherwise continuous.
Known: Agent knows the environment - otherwise ubknown

This enironment is:
Deterministic
Episodic, as it dont have a log taken into accoun
Dynamic, as the dust gathers randomly
Discrete
Unknown, as the agent dont know fully the information of the environment

Exercise 8:
Simple reflex agents: Effective in environments with absolute rules, such as
fire-alarms or door-openers, but stupid af in complex situations
Model-based reflex agents: The memory creates opportunities for a more correct
view of the environment, hence better decisionmaking. Still, its only making a
guess of the world as it is now. As such, guessing wrong could be fatal.
Goal-based makes decisions based on the set goals. This gives more freedom to
the agent, and smoother opportunities to solve the problems towards the goal.
Drawbacks with this is that it could be indecisive or making decisions leading
to unforseen problems.
Utility-based agents bases their action on whichever makes the highest degree
of achievement (or "hapiness"). In cases of conflicting goals, this agent will
be able to chose the wiser choice. Still, as its computing with expected
achievement (or utility), this agents actions too could prove fatal. 





